and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth
show excited to be joined by rebecca
o'brien today
rebecca is a certified stress management
and burnout prevention coach
mindfulness instructor a nutritionist
and a former sales and marketing exec
she helps it executives prevent burnout
and create sustainable
success rebecca a very warm welcome how
are you doing hey
hey sam how's it going good thank you
and yourself
good good thank you so much for having
me oh good cheers
really looking forward to this rebecca
um like i said before we hit record
this is a fresh topic for the show we've
talked a lot about business growth we've
talked a lot about sales a lot about
marketing strategies but we really
haven't talked about um
kind of pushing yourself to the limit
and i think it's it's a really timely
one i was actually thinking to myself
earlier
as i've found myself the last few days
last few weeks just being in non-stop
zoom calls non-stop skype calls and then
go into my email realizing i've got
almost three to four pages full of email
and thinking if i don't get clear these
emails out today i'm just gonna have
probably about six pages of email by
tomorrow
and uh really really getting quite
stressed at times um
especially i'm working from home you've
got limited places to go when it's
covered
and such so how we can avoid burnout in
business
is going to be this the topic of
conversation today rebecca i think it's
really really timely
i'm sure you have some awesome insights
um to help us with so i want to jump
straight into it really
and really talk about what are some of
the symptoms
some of the signs that we need to be
aware of um that we could be we could be
close to burnout
um i think just like you said sam with
everything going on
this year here that we have been through
um really coming up to the holidays now
i know many
were celebrating thanksgiving last
weekend
and then coming up to christmas at the
moment it's
it's a lot uh we are all dealing with a
lot there
is a lot of stress or anxiety showing up
and this is great just to
become aware because it really all
starts with self-awareness when it
comes to burnout and was definitely
something
that i was missing myself
you know through working my career but
also
then finally being diagnosed with
burnout
but what i'd like to flag up is really
the
four you know categories of symptoms and
what they can look like because it's
literally it's you know
emotional cognitive symptoms physical
symptoms and behavioral
okay and how emotional can
really show up now this is going to be
different for everyone
there's lots of ways that this can show
up and just in burnout
the emotional ones can look like you
know
irritation um mood swings
feeling overwhelmed feeling
worthless the behavioral ones now they
can
also especially coming up to the
holidays might be aware of this but that
can look like you know
eating more or less um
you know kind of masking our emotions if
that is through
more alcohol um can also
really come up um for us all
in in the holidays now but it can also
be with procrastination
um are you self-sabotaging are you
getting in your own way
uh nervous habits and then cognitive
symptoms
really with memory and concentration
lack of focus you know having racing
thoughts
in um at the end of the evenings when
you're you know trying to get to sleep
constant worry that can also show up and
then physical symptoms of
aches and pains in our body because
burnout is of course
you know this is my mind and body and
and really our our stress symptom
stressors coming up in chronic stress
over a long period of time that's when
burnout happens
but it can also look for you know nausea
headaches physical symptoms as well
the the one that i really struggle with
the most
and you would think i'd become aware of
it
but it was really memory and
focus and concentration i was couldn't
put together an
email at the end it would take me hours
and i was still working at that stage
i was still working and thinking i'm
just having a bad day or i'm having a
bad week
that'll go over
and then i started to lose my hair you
know i had the emotional symptoms
of really being on edge oh being on edge
sorry
and mood swings and
very isolated i just wanted to isolate
myself
it sounds tough and i mean in your in
your situation rebecca when
when you had um when you were getting a
burnout is it something you knew was
happening or did you did it take someone
to actually step
in and say look i think i think this is
what's going on rebecca
and these this is how you can overcome
it or was it just a case if you got to
the stage where everything was was too
tough work wise
and then someone had to help you out or
yeah i mean for me
i was i was actually completely blind to
it because
i was you know on the fast train
with my career um working in sales and
marketing
have done for you know 15 years before
that happened
i got burnt out in 2014
and unfortunately i didn't i didn't have
anyone i didn't know anyone that
um that had gone through burnout
i had heard of it but i can honestly say
that i
thought that that was for them that
weren't so resilient or weren't that
strong
or didn't have the drive
and ambition because that's that's one
thing
which is you know i feel bad about today
because i i learned my lesson and
learned it the hard way but that's
another thing with burnout that you can
really see
it comes up a lot with a type
personalities and the
typical person of you know drive
ambition
go go go blinders on and just fast train
and and that was me i was really um
dismissing any kind of emotions or
any symptoms coming up or showing up
and this is also something to remember
that
it usually doesn't happen over
this is not you know a three-month
period or a six-month period and you're
like
okay i'm i'm burnt out now this was
something coming up
for me probably in in the last you know
20 years so it usually builds up over
some time
it can build up over some time and again
everyone is different and i think that's
so important to
remember because as we all have
different
stressors and we will get
stressed by different things and how our
body and mind function and both
resilience
you will also react you know differently
of
some things cause me stress and some
other things won't cause you stress
but at the end of the day if you are in
that situation and it is
constantly a stressor and you are
having and dealing with chronic stress
over a longer period of time
that is when it will lead to burnout
makes sense and rebecca you mentioned
those four signals
to be aware of when it comes to burnout
so there was the emotional ones
there was the behavioral ones this is my
if i could read my
writing the the cognitive ones and the
physical ones
as the fourth pipes so if if we are
could it be that we get
would would you only get one type or
could we get a mix of all the four
um just so we can kind of be aware of
what's going on perhaps some emotional
some cognitive and then some physicals
are getting
the aches and pains as well as certain
irritations and then
kind of perhaps like you said when when
it's then it's late at night we're
trying to get to sleep we're having
all these these things running through
our heads because we can't focus we've
got concerns about our business about
what we need to do or
targets we need to hit so is it
typically just one or could we get a mix
it can be it can be all four it can be
one it can be all four
um and it will also run in different
periods
of you know of our life and and really
what is going on because stressors
you know stressors way back then in our
evolution you know
our our system and stress um
the communication through our brain and
our body is of course
you know this is our brain reacting to a
perceived threat
um they are it is wanting to protect us
and of course it's there for a reason
um the problem is now is back then
it was you know we're out hunting or
trying to find food with bears
and um you know trying to
keep ourselves safe and today our
stressors can be
from different things of sitting in
traffic
of a deadline of you know trying to
um running late for picking up our kids
or trying to get you know everything
done at once
at work and you know juggling
all these different tasks all at once
so really with that is
self-awareness is the biggest thing and
so
you know being aware of
what is happening in your day-to-day
life and
what is coming up for you got it
okay so on that note rebecca how can we
how can we ensure that we are gaining
optimal performance so when we're doing
our day-to-day job that we are
kind of putting in a good shift or if we
run a business we're we're getting
maximum results for our clients
maximum sales revenue maximum out of our
marketing spend and all that good stuff
um but we're not pushing ourselves to
the limit
so perhaps to jump back to my example
where i'm
recently it feels like i'm in non-stop
video calls and then when i end the
video cause i've got non-stop email
and then by the time i look at it it's
nearly 6 p.m and
i've got to go and look after my kids so
how can we um make sure that we're kind
of getting
better results in in the business that
we're doing but not pushing ourselves
too far
so like we like you said we're not going
to get the symptoms and the
the burnout um long term and cause
ourselves perhaps harm either
emotionally or physically
yeah i mean it's it really is
um you know i can understand that with
the work day
and we have targets and we want to show
up and it's
performance and you know we um
most of with businesses entrepreneurs
professionals wherever you're working
i completely understand that you know
we're here we want
and we're striving for success and
that's absolutely fine you know
work hard um there's the saying you know
work hard play hard
and i was just talking to um i think it
was kerry that mentioned this
another friend of ours here on linkedin
and she was saying
you know it's about self-care hard as
well and
self-care is really and i love that
where she says you know
work hard but self-care hard because
self-care is something i speak about
so so much uh both with my clients and
and a lot of the time here on linkedin
as well
is it's a it's a balance and
if you can set up practices
and um you know points within your
workday where
you can really have that balance of
maybe you know booking the zoom calls 45
minutes each one and having 5-10 minutes
in between
i work through a mindful work day as
as i call it and there's a couple of
tips and practices that i do with
you know a smaller break to
start with one of the most challenging
tasks in
you know first thing in the morning i
also will
shut off you know email or all
notifications during
certain hours of the day and then really
just to try to find practices that can
support
you in in your work and and what you are
um
what you are doing on a day-to-day basis
yeah i mean that that makes sense it's
something i've been trying to do more
um in terms of having days days blocked
out where there is just
just kind of meeting after meeting and
then just making sure you have actually
got that space in there whether it's
taking some time out for lunch or
15 minutes in the morning or something
like that so is that is that what you
mean
and i love that that phrase you just
said work hard and self-care hard
yeah yeah rather than the old school one
work hard play hard
yeah exactly when when we say self-care
what does that exactly mean does that
just mean breaking up the day like you
mentioned rebecca or is there a bit more
to it than that
i mean self-care can look um
looks different for everyone and it's
really uh
important to find the you know to find
what you need
um and what will work for you but
self-care
is really in connection with
self-awareness
and i for example i check in with myself
every day sometimes a couple of times a
day
and really just weighing out you know
what do what do i need now how can
i support myself the best to get
um to get through and
really acknowledge my needs and and
wants right now if that is through work
if that is through a project
i'm doing if that is you know um
creating something um that can
look like through habits it can work
look like like we were saying you know
walks during the middle of the day
how can that practice really support you
i mean people that
are sitting right now in in
you know working from home one of the
big things is
you know can you get up do you have a
standing desk or can you go
take uh walk and talk meetings
can you you know do some type of
movement to just
break up the day and support your
focus and concentration
sure no that all makes perfect sense and
in terms of the the four signals of
burnouts the emotional behavioral
cognitive
and the physical um if we if we feel
like we're perhaps getting
close to burnout or we're feeling pretty
pretty tired we're feeling pretty
stressed
in what we're doing is there different
ways to treat each of the four signals
based on how you're feeling so if you
think we've got x y or z symptoms
is there different ways that we can say
look this is um
i've got a lack of focus like you
mentioned i'm struggling to write things
down i'm struggling to do emails
is there a certain way we can treat each
one or certain way that we should look
to attack each one or should we
seek professional help or is there
things we can do by ourselves
there is there's a lot of things we can
we can do by ourselves and
like you're saying sam if if that
awareness is is there
and i speak about uh self-awareness
self-mastery
so much is when you are
acknowledging and and understanding what
is going on either if it's
you know cognitive or behavioral like we
said physical
um you can put in practice of
okay do i need to do i need to go out
and take
a 15-minute walk do i need to
look at my habits in terms of nutrition
you know am i taking care of myself uh
how am i sleeping
um every night you know what am i doing
to
wind down every night before i go to bed
or
is there is there a part where i can
unplug and just you know
take a few hours or even at the weekend
that whole weekend to not you know be on
social media or be
constantly having you know all
technology from all forms of
um coming at us but it's really of
knowing you know what can i do for
myself what now and what do i
what do i enjoy okay
yeah yeah i mean um on that note should
we also look at the things
that like you mentioned are perhaps
causing a harm whatsoever it is
in my case perhaps spending way too much
time on linkedin
so yeah checking my notifications
constantly checking my message when i
could be perhaps
kind of dedicating that to other stuff
um whether that's business related
whether that's person whether that's
family time
so is understanding those things that
perhaps are causing us
anxiety perhaps are wasting our time a
bit too much in certain cases
and then working on those um and then
working on the self-care kind of things
like you said like whether that's taking
a walk
that's taking a break and understanding
kind of
what what the issues are and then trying
to attack those is is that some of the
best ways to
to approach it yeah i would i would
definitely look at
um overall you know
the habits that we are creating
and actually practicing each day um also
with
you know self-care in that and not being
afraid to
set boundaries sending boundaries is
one of the parts of of my program that i
work with my clients on and it's so
important for both
our energy and respective of
all the relationships you know outside
whether it's with our family or
work or you know colleagues but also
with ourself
to really be able to um
save our energy and keep our
cup full because you know we can't we
can't pour from
an empty cup and you know
those boundaries can work
really um be really
important when it comes to your time
and time with yourself to be able to
give yourself a break yeah yeah
and that i mean that's that's definitely
something i should look at and i'm sure
a lot of people tuning in
that makes sense to you so on that note
boundaries do you think we should
kind of set time day to day does it have
to be kind of fixed so
for example like we're going to take a
break in the morning going to take a
good break at lunchtime i'm going to
make sure i've got this this amount of
time in between calls and i'm going to
make sure
if i can most days i'm i'm done with
work by five o'clock six o'clock
whatever
our working hours is is that what it's
about or all is it is it a bit more
structured
in terms of how you set up your
day-to-day or does it even need to be
structured
um yeah i mean you're you're kind of
you're kind of um intertwining both with
boundaries and like i was saying you
know a mindful work day which is great
to you know set those set practices in
place but boundaries can
also there's several types of boundaries
and it's
more in time and respect for your own
energy
and your wants and needs and what do you
you know what do you need for optimal
performance
optimal wellness and optimal health
um and that that comes back again you
know to
the self-awareness also self-love with
that of respecting that but also
respecting
other people's boundaries and it can be
something of setting
in place where you know uh
you check out at the end of the day and
you have made that you know both clear
to yourself
but perhaps others as well that i'm not
you know i'm not answering emails after
7 8 pm each day
this is where i need my time or
this is a boundary i'm going to set in
place to
support myself and respect myself to do
something else or to take time out for
me
because it's an it's an energy thing of
that balance again
yeah that makes sense i mean there's
there's the old cliche sayings like your
health is your wealth and healthy body
healthy mind so
what kind of um does does our nutrition
and does what we're eating and drinking
and affect this much rebecca or is that
am i completely off the mark is that not
really related to what we're discussing
here no it is it is for sure
yeah and i i love that part and i'm very
passionate about
nutrition and how that you know supports
our whole body because i believe
you are what you eat and
right now you know nutrition of taking
care of ourselves
and what are you you know what are you
putting in your body and is that
agreeing with you
is it supporting you is it you know
processed foods or extra sugars
or what is your day-to-day you know
nutrition look
like because it's it's ultimately will
support your
your brain and your focus and of how you
are feeling
yeah i mean i can't tell you the amount
of times i've had a a takeaway on a
sunday evening
and i'll come into work and on monday
morning get to my desk and i feel really
groggy
half asleep yeah and and not really
aware of what i'm doing whereas if i had
a nice meal
with i don't know plenty of meat and
vegetables and plenty of water the day
before on the weekend
and i've perhaps done a workout and i've
eaten healthy then i i feel so much
better
yeah and i'm not just kind of sitting at
my desk sweating away ready for a snooze
no yeah but yeah so i guess that's
something we need to
kind of make it make a balance of right
understand what we're taking in and
understand how it's going to affect us
and really i mean like you're saying
with with food sam i mean
i'm i'm a nutritionist i can still
you know enjoy some pizza enjoy some
carrot cake
whatever it is but i have
installed a habit and you know
love eating healthy because i know how
it supports me
and what it actually does for uh
my mind and and body and and like you're
saying
if i if i want to have that pizza on a
saturday night
um i i do it but i will definitely pay
for it because i know how i will be
feeling
the day after yeah yeah yeah i mean
on on that night it's funny um is there
kind of a checklist as such
that we can think about that this might
be a
a tough question um where we can say
look as
we need to be eating healthy we need to
be drinking right we need to be making
sure we're taking enough breaks um
and i appreciate there's a bit of a
top-level view um but are there certain
habits that we can say if as long as
we're following these habits roughly
then we're on the right track or is it
is it quite different for for each each
person
and i think it's a great question
it is um different for
every person um and it's definitely i
think different
with what you you know how are you
feeling now what are you trying to
achieve
what is your everyday you know diet look
like
i always start off my clients where
i need to see a you know four day food
diary from them
including what they eat and drink from
every hour of the day just to have an
understanding of it
but of course i mean if if we can say
eating more vegetables um
really you know um cooking at home more
avoiding um processed foods avoiding you
know
um sugars hidden sugars
i'm a big fan of
you know what i don't i wouldn't say i
don't focus i'm not a weight loss
you know guru and i don't focus so much
on this is this calories and this is
this fat and we need to calculate
exactly you know what what
um you will take for entering the
bodybuilding um
you know bodybuilding that you're gonna
do within
next six months i am more of
i really focus on the ingredients and
anything that you see
in the shops i always recommend to
you know turn that around whether it's a
packet whether it's just
you know um a jar of something whatever
it is the simplest things and just read
of
what is what's the ingredients list what
is actually
in that because you'll be surprised of
something as simple
as let's say a gluten-free
pasta which can
you know which can have
both rice rice flour and
corn flour and or perhaps made of
something else but
there's different things that can be put
in these um
produce and we need to be wary of that
yeah yeah and like you say i'm i'm
terrible i i don't want to tell you what
i had for lunch because it was
a mix of sandwiches chocolate bars bit
of fruit and
everything else i could find in the
cupboards really but it's amazing like
you say
how much what you eat can actually
affect certainly for me um
how you perform yeah so whilst i might
get a quick sugar rush
from eating a bar of chocolate or
whatever i do whatever i wrestle at from
the cupboards but an hour later i'll
feel tired feel lethargic so it's
like so really really interesting on how
what we what we intake be a drink or
food can really affect the business and
it's been an interesting discussion
to really understand and you've given us
some great tips on
what we can take away to really
understand what's going on through us
in terms of our mind what's going
through our body what we can do in our
work day
we need what we can drink to really help
us perform better
um and just before we wrap things up um
rebecca is there any any final
takeaways that we should bear in mind to
help help us maintain
a healthy work life and work and life
balance
and um get max maximum results both from
from ourselves
in our our life away from business and
work and our life in business work
i would really say to master
your self-awareness and really
to not be afraid to check in with
yourself
and really get to um
know yourself of what is you know what
is going on
in terms of both you know deeper
reflection of values
um beliefs your vision
uh your wants and needs
because this is you know this is
something that is with you and really
your driving force in all the actions
that you are taking
and all the progress and goals and what
you want to hit
for especially coming up with 2021
is take some time to reflect on that and
take some time to honor that
and and really get to know um
what you want and what you're striving
for it's really about
alignment and and that's why i say with
holistically
alignment mind body and soul
rebecca really appreciate you coming on
um thanks very much
and for anyone that wants to learn more
about yourself anyone wants to connect
with you
or get in touch with you please do tell
us more about yourself your business
and how we can learn from you yeah you
can find me on linkedin
um of course i'm both rebecca o'brien
but my
company is wellness by rebecca a lot of
things that
we discuss now sam i continuously you
know try to provide
support and content with that um
holistically whether it's stress burnout
prevention
nutrition and support in different
you know awareness and tips and tools
you can use throughout every day
but otherwise i'm just on uh wellness by
rebecca
like same as my linkedin and my website
social media is
wellness by rebecca and any questions
that you have
you can contact me there awesome rebecca
thanks once again really enjoyed the
chat thank you so much sam i
really enjoyed it thank you cheers and
if you enjoyed the show be sure to hit
subscribe on business growth show
wherever you get your podcast via apple
spotify youtube we interview business
leaders each and every week to give you
actionable tips to help grow your
business
help increase yourselves and make best
use of marketing and thanks very much
for tuning in